Shanab script to say 

The script lets you run repeated searches on csv  log files based on user inputs. For example, Protocol, SRC ip

We have defined functions for every search criteria to make the code easy to read and easy to follow

Firstly, the script asks you to enter search criteria, we capture it as a input number , then we list of log files available using an array
Number  for each criteria is displayed correctly for the user , we call functions and we have made our main menu a function so that, after each time a search is done, we have defined a search again function, where we call the main menu again and again, till the users choses to terminate the scripts. 

We check for input validations where the users select the input number we have a legible menu and input validations are done via if conditions and do while statements. 

For text inputs we are converting cases and validations. 

The tricky part for me was to run searches on all the files and what I did was to use a temporary file and appended the file using the “>> append” operator and then running awk on the temp file and finally writing the output to the csv file user inputs to in a readable table format.

Majority of the searches are done using awk 
For searching protocols like TCP UDP ICMP etc. we convert the case and use an awk to grep for protocols and filtering suspicious record to a dump file and then working on that file. And deleting the dump file after operations

It was really great to understand how awk works and formatting to get the desired out put was fun and a great learning for me.

Some clever methods I consider I used in here is the case conversion, the array is used for input protocols where I offset the first element 0 of the array to a dummy element and file name duplication detection, and looping the whole script for getting the user input which I had to convert my linear code which I initially wrote to a modular function based script.


The method I used for writing this script was to follow the requirements questionnaires and I have commented the questionnaire text as objective and commented what I learned on how the code works especially awk. 

